[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi.
It's James here
from "Food Matters,"
and welcome to this
special interview
with Dr. Kellyann Petrucci.
She is the founder
of drkellyann.com,
and also the best selling
author of "The Bone Broth Diet."
She is an amazing
superstar when it
comes to reversing aging,
looking more beautiful.
She's living proof of that,
and understanding all things
about bone broth,
and how important
it is to look after our
gut and our skin health.
>> Kellyanne, how are you?
>> I'm doing wonderful.
So happy to be here.
>> So, you know, bone broth
is something that has been out
of the landscape of the food--
>> Yeah.
>> --sort of diet for a while.
And you've helped
bring it to prominence.
How was it that you
discovered this?
>> Yeah, and I'm
so proud of that,
because there really is a
bone broth revolution now.
And it's started because I
know what a lot of people
that are watching this need.
And I found out
myself the hard way,
because, bam, I hit a wall
when I turned 40, I hit a wall.
And here I was, a successful
clinician, successful doctor.
Saw tons of patients, and
I really did know my stuff.
So why is it that I'm 40 years
old, and I'm hitting a wall?
And what I found out was
that as we go through life
and we go through different
turnstiles of life,
we really start changing
our needs a little bit.
Our bodies start changing.
And we need really good
nutrition as we move forward.
I can't-- I can't explain
how important this is,
to get the toxins out of the
body, push the nutrition in.
That's the key.
That's the pathway.
Get those toxins
out of the body,
push the nutrition
into the cells.
When that happens,
bam, the magic happens,
and what astounded
me, James, was
that when I started using this
crazy thing called bone broth,
I saw results that were typical.
So as a clinician, when you
see results that are typical,
it gets your attention.
>> So bone broth is a
really interesting topic
because for a lot of
people, especially for me,
for many years, I ate, you know,
vegetarian, really clean foods,
lots of plant-based foods.
And recently, I have been
introducing some bone broth,
as I've learned more about the
powers and properties it has
for gut health and
supporting the mucosals
and the lining of the gut.
But it is a little bit
controversial still
for are a lot of people coming
to this for the first time.
How do you respond to that?
>> Well, two ways.
Number one, remember what the
whole premise behind food,
and research, and really
getting the research
that we need to say, hey,
look, this definitively works.
We know this works.
I know it works because
I've tested it out.
But there's been no global
scale test that says,
this absolutely works 100%.
I only know it's worked
with thousands and thousands
of people that have written in.
I know that what we
see-- the results
that we've seen clinically.
It makes such a big difference.
The controversy comes in--
well, you know, I'm a
vegetarian, or I am a vegan,
and this is not something
that I would prefer to use.
And what I say to that is I
am personally responsible.
I'll just say it.
I'm personally responsible for
converting many vegetarians.
And they call themselves
mini converted.
And there's people that, you
know, are at this event now
that have converted, because
the protein that is in the bone
broth is amazing for the body.
You have amino acids that
are amazing for the body.
You've got minerals that
And the best part is you've
got that cooked collagen, which
is gelatin.
And that's a really key word.
Because this
gelatin is explosive
in the body in the most positive
way, because it does something
called healing the gut.
And those are three words
that everyone really needs
to key into, listen to here.
Because in my experience, if you
were to put all of my patients
into a football field, all
the years of seeing people
in clinic, and I were
to dilute it down,
to really dial it down to
what are the three things that
were most common
in every patient,
no matter what they
were coming in for,
no matter what
modern day issue--
whether it's heart disease,
whether it's cancer,
whether it's diabetes,
whether it's obesity,
whether it's some kind of
chronic autoimmune problem.
What is it?
And it's this.
Number one, had to heal the gut.
Number two, I had to get
that inflammation down.
And number three, I had to
teach them to teach their body
to be a natural fat burner.
Those three things
are essential.
They are absolutely essential
to becoming slimmer,
to becoming younger,
and to really being
a strong, powerful machine
that you really can be.
I assure you, you can.
No matter where
anyone is now, you
can develop that in your
body and in your life.
And so what I love
about bone broth--
and I have to tell you I have
done some amazing studies
overseas, studying Switzerland,
and London, and really amazing
experiences.
Incredible treatments,
modalities, I
could talk about forever.
Why in the world am I hooking
just on the bone broth?
Because when I tell you, again,
that the results that we see
are typical--
better skin, aches and
pains that are gone.
We use the bone brought to
help people get slimmer.
They get a shot of energy.
They sleep better.
When I see things like
that that are so typical,
I am going to make
sure you know about it.
So that's why I love bone broth,
because it does those three
things.
It reduces inflammation,
it heals the gut,
and it teaches your body to
become this natural fat burner.
>> Beautiful.
Let's talk about beauty
for a minute, because you
touched on collagen, which is--
people pay so much to
look after their skin.
You know, we put
creams and ointments
on our skin topically, and a lot
of those creams and ointments
have a lot of toxins in them.
>> They sure do.
>> But let's look at nourishing
the body from the inside out.
Obviously, you don't discount
the benefits that green plant
foods, healthy vegetables,
beautiful healthy fats,
you know, good quality
proteins have in the diet.
But bone broth's like, your
little secret weapon, isn't it?
You love it.
And is this something that you
love because of how effective
it is at beautifying the skin
and making-- because you're
a beautiful woman.
I'm comfortable
saying that on screen.
>> Thank you.
>> And, you know, you said you
passed your 40th birthday--
>> Way past.
Way past.
>> A number of years ago.
A number of years ago.
>> And I don't say
that to just anyone,
so you should feel good.
>> It's on the record now.
So let me-- tell me a little
bit about how powerful
bone brought is for improving
your beauty and your skin.
>> So I'm going to tell
you a really big secret.
When I first came out with
the concept of the book,
"The Bone Broth
Diet," I was slammed
from the people closest to
me, my friends, my colleagues.
Most people in mainstream,
most people in mainstream,
said, you're kidding me.
Bone broth?
That is so not sexy.
You're not going
to sell one book.
They were surprised when
it became a New York Times
bestseller.
Because it really did
sell, because it works.
The ew escapes the
mind immediately
when you know what
it does for you.
So they were really surprised.
They said, the secret
is, oh, my gosh, you're
coming up the diet book,
which are all about health.
Anyone who knows me and
knows anything about me
knows I'm all about health.
But here's the thing
about bone broth.
It gets you so stinking
healthy, that your body's
got no choice, no
choice, but to radiate.
And what do I mean by radiate?
It gives you beautiful
luster-filled skin.
And there's a really
big difference
between concentrating
on just one area.
So we know that there's a lot
going on with a lot of fillers
and a lot of Botox, and
all of these products
that people are
using on their skin.
But what if I told
you, what if I said,
it's not about
just concentrating
on one little area.
It's about the overall luster
and demeanor of the skin.
You get this from collagen.
That's how you get it.
It's the glue that holds
your body together.
And if you think about your skin
cells, they're like like balls,
right?
So either they can be bouncy
balls or deflated balls.
When you give them the
nutrition they need,
they're no longer deflated.
They're bouncy balls,
and their skin just
becomes really beautiful.
So this is a wonderful side
effect of being super healthy.
Why?
Because you can assess someone.
A clinician can often tell a
lot about the person's health
by their skin, because it's
that gut connection again.
I told you the three
things that you
need to do, that
needs to happen,
for you to shine,
for you to radiate,
for you to become slimmer and
younger, healthier than ever.
It's healing the gut, reducing
inflammation, becoming
that natural fat burner.
This is what bone
broth does for you.
So you can use it to really
get your skin beautiful.
And here is another amazing
thing about bone broth.
I created something
called mini fasting.
This is a way to
burn stored fat.
So what's stored fat?
Here, here, here, here.
The stuff here.
All that stuff we don't want.
Well, that's stored fat.
And in order to do
that, the best way I've
ever seen clinically--
and we've done studies in
different cities and thousands
of results--
you sip on bone broth two
non-consecutive days a week.
You have one light meal at
7:00 PM, a healthy protein,
healthy fat, and some
kind of fibrous vegetable.
You have that at 7:00 PM.
Do that two non-consecutive
days a week,
and you start really
getting in there,
and getting that stored fat.
>> So you do bone broth
throughout the day,
and then a light
meal in the evening.
>> Yes.
>> OK.
>> Up to six cups of bone
broth during the day,
two non-consecutive days.
One light meal at 7
o'clock if you need it.
So I don't usually do the
meal, but some people do.
And this is such a good way to
utilize intermittent fasting,
which we know works so well.
But some people, you know what?
It makes them want to kick
everything and everyone.
Right?
So it makes some people ornery
and cranky and lightheaded,
and all of these things.
This is a way to get
the exact same results
without any of the discomfort.
So it's really-- it's been
magical for so many people.
>> Nice.
You know, what-- you know, as
we think about this idea of bone
broth and introducing
it into the diet--
so a lot of people
are wondering--
are probably wondering, you
know, so how do I make it?
How often should I have it?
You know, because
it seems, you know,
intermittent fasting, having
it a couple of days a week,
is a great way to
boost your health.
But on a long-term
basis, how do we make it,
and how often should we
include it in our diet?
>> Yeah.
So super easy.
And you have three
different options
on how you would
like to make this.
And one is the
slow cooker, which
is my absolute favorite way.
One is in a regular stock pot.
One is in a pressure cooker.
And the advantage of
the pressure cooker
is that it cooks it very
fast in about four hours.
So the difference-- and
let me just say this.
The difference between
bone broth and regular soup
that you buy in a store is the
soup that you buy in a store,
in addition to having a lot of
ingredients that really are not
friendly to us at all, a lot
of sodium and other products,
it's cooked very fast.
It's cooked without the bones,
and it's cooked very fast.
Bone broth is simmered
over a long period of time,
with these bones getting all
the goodness out of them.
And I have to also say,
we didn't mention this,
and it's super important.
So, James, I'd like to add this.
One of the biggest things
that we see in clinic
is painful or achy joints.
I Love Bone broth for
achy joints, which
is why so many athletes are
on bone broth for recovery,
and to just really
nurse the joints,
because it's got
all that chondroitin
and glucosamine that
you get naturally.
So it's really important.
So how to make it?
Super easy.
Again, three options.
Stock pot, slow cooker,
or pressure cooker.
All you do is take the bones.
You can either use
a chicken carcass,
which is the easiest way.
You just use the
carcass of a chicken.
Get the best quality
that you can.
Because, remember, whatever
quality that you use,
it actually goes
right into your body.
It makes a huge difference.
That transference is
really important, so
the best quality that you can.
>> So ideally,
organic, free range--
>> That is ideal.
It really is the ideal.
And it's so much easier to get
now than it ever was before.
So you put the bones-- so say
you're using a chicken carcass.
You put the carcass into a pot.
And this is how easy it is.
I always use celery,
onions, and carrots,
just because it gives
it that nice flavor.
It's so easy.
All you do is cut the onion
four ways, throw it in the pot,
crack the carrots,
throw them in.
Celery, bam, one
cut, throw it in.
You put water about 1
inch over everything.
And then whatever
spices that you want.
Whatever it is.
I love lemongrass.
That's my favorite.
I stick that in there,
whatever it is know.
Celtic sea salt, some
pepper, whatever.
You simmer that for
between 12 and 18 hours.
So for chicken, I
usually do about 12.
For beef, I usually do about 18.
And for fish, I keep
it to about nine hours.
So all of these,
super, super healthy.
Simmer it.
The slow cooker is the
best, because all you do
is plug it in, turn
it on, and walk away.
It really comes
out so beautifully.
And what you want is that
wiggle, that gelatinous wiggle.
Because it's like gelatin.
It's really going to go in
there and heal that gut,
reduce that inflammation,
and beautify your skin.
And again, using it
for slimming really
works well when you're using
it with the mini fasting.
And also Penn State
did a study that
showed when you use broths
and soups in your diet,
you typically are about seven
to eight pounds less a year
just naturally.
>> Wow.
Awesome.
And so how would you
integrate this on a day
to day basis in your diet like?
Like, is it something
you'd have for breakfast?
Or is it something
you'd have for dinner,
or throughout the day?
>> So I call this personal play.
It really depends on you
and what works best for you.
But we find that about two
cups a day tend to work best.
So one cup in the morning
really works well with people.
And when you get that afternoon
dip that so many of us get,
that's when I always
go for the second cup.
That's really a beautiful way.
So if you say Dr.
Kellyann, I hear you.
You know, it's great.
But I don't want to do
the whole diet thing.
I just want to put bone
broth into my life.
Just get bone broth into your
life once or twice a day.
Twice a day optimally.
And watch and see what happens.
I mean really you'll
see the magic happen.
>> So I have another
question now,
which has just come
up around this.
The science and the attitude
to the approach of diet
has evolved a lot.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> In the '80s, we went
from removing everything.
And now your suggestion
is just add in bone both.
You know, ideally
you want people
to remove some of the
gluten containing grains,
which can cause inflammation
and irritation to the gut wall.
>> Yes, yes.
>> Increasing green leafy
vegetables and, you know,
organic fruits and nuts.
>> I love green drinks.
So I do this a lot.
Let me just say this.
I make green drinks.
I love them.
And a lot of times, I'll
put them in a Mason jar,
and I'll just dunk it
right in the bone broth.
>> As well?
>> I dunk it.
I mean, can you imagine
the power of that?
Green drinks and bone broth.
Wow.
Combine those.
I mean, it just boggles my mind.
It's so powerful for the body.
It's like crazy.
It's crazy.
And this is a way of
confusing the body
in the most powerful way.
You're literally
confusing the body.
What, what, what, what?
I have no choice
but to be healthy.
Just remember that.
That's what you're doing.
You're giving your
body no choice.
It's against natural law
for this not to work.
Because this is what really
feeds the cellular matrix.
>> Wonderful.
Awesome.
Any final thoughts you
want to leave people with?
>> All I have to say is
that no matter how you feel,
no matter where you are, you
really can create the you
of your dreams.
Whatever that dream is
you have for yourself,
you can create that.
It's two things.
Number one just taking
action, just starting,
just take action.
And number two, don't give up.
>> I love it.
Fantastic chatting with you.
Thank you so much for your time.
Thank you.
It's been a pleasure.
[MUSIC PLAYING]